# Identification-of-human-gait-by-UWB-radar-micro-Doppler-measurement

Recognising humans by their distinct pattern of walking (gait) is a topic of great interest that has a variety of surveillance applications, such as rescue, medical monitoring, and intelligent environments. Usually, this is done with camera systems, but recently there has been increased interest in using radar platforms for the same purpose. This study explores the possibilities of personnel identification using impulse radio ultra-wideband radar (IR-UWB). The study measures the data of 14 subjects walking in view of the radar and builds a system to differentiate multiple subjects based on their walking gait. Toward this end, both conventional classifier and deep learning models are implemented. 

In the area of the conventional classification model, the spectrogram and cadence-velocity diagram are adapted to represent the Radar data. A signal processing framework is developed to extract the features from the representations, including the handcrafted physically interpretable features and the automatic 2D2D-PCA features. The obtained features are then used to train the Support Vector Machine (SVM) and K nearest neighbour (KNN) Classifier. Besides, the features are compared in terms of their corresponding classification performance. Toward a deep learning model, a convolutional neural network is built to identify different subjects directly from the generated spectrograms, achieving a satisfying result on the recognition of a closed set of 14 people.

The result indicates the capabilities of radar to capture differences in gait patterns. Even very slight changes in the walking gait characteristics such as speed and stride can lead to a distinctive micro-Doppler (m-D) signature, which can solve the personnel identification problem. The overall accuracy of the above classification models is satisfying. The deep learning approach has a relatively high accuracy of 99.47\%. However, the SVM classifier has a reduced training time and a marginally more deficient accuracy of 97.6\%.
